To: all_s390f@ms,consult@msn
Subject: A new toy
--text follows this line--


There is a new toy called "dist-toy"  which is available to s390f
students.  

Because the xlispstat software is out of date on the RT's, it is available
only on coco.  To get a window on coco type:

xon coco xterm

This will launch a new window for you attached to the computer coco
which runs xlispstat.

At the coco_1% prompt type "dist-toy".  This should launch the
program.  It will load a large number of files and then give you a
choice of two menus.

The menu "DIST TOY" has various distribution displays.  To use select
a distribution by name.  You can change the parameters using the
sliders and watch what happens to the density or mass function.
Selecting the menu item again will cause the plot and sliders to
disappear. 

Note: plots are not automatically rescaled.  You can rescale a plot by
pressing the menu button and selecting the rescale option.

The menu "CLT Toy" selects various central limit theorem
demonstrations.  Again you choose a distribution and the program
displays a histogram of a sample of 500 draws from that population and
the best approximating normal curve.  When you select the same distribution
again it changes from the sample of a single value to the sample of 
sums of values.  Each "iteration" another sample of 500 draws is added
to the exisiting total.  The plot is adjusted accordingly.  Each time
you select the distribution (after the first) 10 samples are added.


There is an exit item in the menu-bar menu (press the menu button)

BUGS
	It is possible to get some illegal values of parameters (e.g.,
uniform distribution in which the min is greater than the max, or zero
values for certain distributions in which the parameters must be
greater than zero.)  This is mostly harmless.

	There is no clean way to get rid of a clt plot.  If you press
the close button, the plot goes away, but there is no easy way to get
it back.


There is currently no "help" button.

FEATURES

Xlispstat has a very stupid algorithm for placing windows.  The
usually wind up on top of each other.

Xlispstat doesn't update the parameters immediately if you edit the
text items on the sliders.  Press the corresponding "update" button to
register the change.

