Copyright 1991 Russell G. Almond

RATIONAL

The basic concept of Elicitation Tool for You (ElToY) [Note: I mean
"You" in the loose sense of de Finetti that Good uses; in this case,
"You" is effectively the user] is that is provides a tools for
elicitation of prior beliefs through interactive feedback.  The values
of hyperparameters of a prior distribution are relatively abstract
concepts, and even statisticians have only moderate intuition into
their meanings.  One way to check consistancy of elicitation is
through iterative feedback.  You propose a set of values for the
hyperparameters and the computer displays the consequences of Your
proposition, in terms of the shape and statistics of the prior
distiribution, in terms of the effects on predictive distributions,
and in terms of effects on the posterior distribution given
hypothetical data.

One further principle of the system is that everything is "active."
If You change the posterior distribution, those changes should be
reflected in the prior.  If You change the prior, the posterior and
predictive distributions are changed.  If You change the hypothetical
data, the changes should appear in the posterior distirbution.  This
should allow You to formulate Your beliefs in a consistant fashion.

There are two proposed uses for this tool, the first is as an
educational device.  If You are a student, it will enable You to
obtain a better feel for the standard conjugate families of
distributions and Bayesian analysis in general.  The second is as an
elicitation tool for getting at prior beliefs in graphical models.


SUPPORTED DISTRIBUTIONS

Version 0 is intended to support univariate conjugate prior-likelihood
families:  beta-binomial, gamma-Poisson, gamma-exponential,
normal-normal, gamma-normal.
By Version 1 it should support bivariate conjugate priors, such as
normalxgamma models.
By Version 2 it should support mixtures of conjugate priors and
mixture distributions in general.  As a matter of fact, Version 2
should contian my proposed distribution mixture tool.


STRUCTURE GRAPH


			el-tool
			/  |  \
  		     /     |     \
		  /        |        \
              hyper-	 prior-    ( . . . ) ; list of
	    parameters 	  tool 		\
		.         / \            |
		  .      /   \        data-link	-------------------+
		parameters   prior-      |   \		     	   |
			     display    data  post-parameters.     |
			       |          \                   . post-tool
			       |	   |	 	       	   |
			     marginal-	    \	 	       	   |
			     display      data-	 		post-display
					  display		   |
								   |
								marginal-
								display


UPDATE STRATEGY

Value updating works as follows.  Whenever an el-tool object receives
a request to change data that it shares in common with a parent, it
passes the change request to the parent.  The top level data object
containing the value to be changed, then sends an update message to
itself with the message it recieved as the arguments.  

The update method re-sends the change message with the keyword :local
placed before the data.  It then sends an update message to each of
its children.

Example:  Suppose we change the posterior mean.  The posterior
display tool will then generate a change request for the posterior
hyperparameters which it will send to the data-link.  The data-link is the
highest object containing the posterior parameters.  Its method for
making a change not marked as local, however, is to unlink and change
the prior hyperparameters.  This in turn is done by sending a message
to the el-tool to change the hyperparameters.  The el-tool then sends
itself an update message.  It handles the update message by first
sending itself a local :hyperparameters message and then sending and
:update :hyperparameters message to each of its children.  This
message is recieved by the data-link which sends itself a local
:hyperparameters message.  It then sends itself a
:posterior-hyperparameters message.  It then sends out an update
message to all its children, including the posterior display, which in
turn sends a parameters update message to the corresponding marginal
distribution display.



To see the update strategy in action, try tracing the :update,
:parameters, :hyperparameters, :posterior-parameter and
:prior-parameters messages.  All of these messages have extra
information flags (turned on by the tracing) which help to illustrate
the flow of messages through the tool tree.


MAIN OBJECTS

The main object in the system is an elicitation-tool.  An elicitaion
tool spawns several sub-tools, a distribution-display tool for the
prior, a distribution-display tool for the predictive distribution,
and a distribution-display tool for the posterior working through a
ficticious data set.  Additional ficticional data sets and posteriors
can be formed.

el-tool-proto
	has slots for title
	hyperparameters and descriptions
	prior display tool
	list of posterior display tools
	prior distribution family
	likelihood-family
	parameter-names
	data-names


