Course project:  Sta2102S, University of Toronto, Spring 1993
Instructor: N. Reid
Student: G. Tomlinson
Project Title:  Random sampling and density functions for teaching elementary
		statistics

The two program files are

teach-sample.lsp
teach-density.lsp

Both can be loaded with the load command.  After each one is loaded,
it creates its own menu with what I hope are descriptive items.  Briefly
though, here is a description of what the programs do.

SAMPLE:

There are three sections to the menu, each of which illustrates some 
aspect of random sampling.

Sampling from ...
These menu items draw a plot of the reference distribution and allow the user
to build up a histogram of data generated from that distribution.  The current
sample size and number of points that will be added for each "click" is 
selected by a scroll bar.   The distributions that are offered are the ones
that one most often assumes that data comes from.  

The histogram function does not work very well with counted data, as can 
be seen with the Poisson distribution samples.  For this reason, the binomial 
is not shown.

Central Limit Theorem
Four distributions are offered, each of different skewness.  A scroll
bar offers a range of sample sizes.  When instructed, the program generates
500 samples of the specified size from the given distribution.  The normalized
sample means are then sent to a histogram.  A standard normal reference is 
overlaid.

Confidence Intervals
The parent distribution is fixed as N(0,4).  The sample size for the sample to 
be selected is chosen by a scroll bar.  On a plot, a vertical reference line 
shows the position of the true mean.  Each time a sample is 
selected, the sample mean and a 95% confidence interval (using the sample
standard deviation and the t-distribution) is plotted.  Up to 100 CI's
can be plotted.  The sample sizes vary enough to allow the user to see
the halving of the confidence interval length with quadrupling of the sample
size.  An illustration of the LLN can also be seen, as the sample means
converge to the true mean with larger sample size. 

The density section could be combined nicely with the sampling
section below by adding a "generate sample" button to the dialog.  This would
add a histogram for the given parameter settings to the density plot.

The code that I wrote to draw bar graphs could be used to draw better
histograms for count data.  Currently, they are not quite right (see
samples from poisson, for example)


DENSITY:

When an item in the "densities" menu is selected, it draws a graph
of the density (or pmf) of the selected item.  A dialog box is also
created, with a scroll-bar (or bars) for changing the values of 
parameters for the density over a range that I hope demonstrates
just what the parameters do.  There is a button for rescaling the plot
to its contents.  I chose this, rather than rescaling automatically,
as its illustrates (rather dramatically for some densities) the relative
heights of the density for various parameter settings.  

Multiple copies of a density, or multiple densities can be on the screen
at the same time.  This is nice for looking at the appropriateness of
the normal approximation to the binomial, for example.

I also included some code from the book that displays the coordinates
of a "clicked" point on a plot, to allow extrema, etc. to be compared.

Although I did not have time to code them, I realized that there are many 
possible enhancements that could be made to these sorts of plots.  One idea
would be to allow tail areas of chosen probability (e.g. one sided 5%, 
two-sided 5%, etc) to be shaded upon request.  It would be useful also to show
the mean and standard deviations graphically on the plot rather than only
on the scroll bars. 


George Tomlinson
Department of Biostatistics
University of Toronto
  
