hasse.lsp

Contributed by Philip Iversen, piversen@iastate.edu

This program determines F-test and expected mean squares for
balanced complete experimental designs.  It is based on rules
presented in Taylor & Hilton (American Statistician, 1981).
It also draws the Hasse diagram associated with the design, and allows
the user to rearrange nodes in the diagram by dragging them with a
mouse.

The program accepts as input a plain text file containing
information about the factors in the experiment, for example:

(A 5 fixed nil)
(C 3 random (A))
(B 4 fixed nil)
(E 1 random (A C B))

Each line represents one factor in the design and contains a 
list of four elements: the factor name (or letter designation), number
of levels, type (either fixed or random) and a list of all factors in
which the given factor is nested.  An empty list, nil, in the fourth
position indicates that the given factor is not nested in any 
other factors.  There should always be one factor, E, which is
random and nested in all the other factors; this is sometimes called
the "within" factor.
   On UNIX systems the input filenames MUST be in upper case and
end with .DSN; otherwise the get-filename function will not find them.

This package contains the following files:

    README        This file.
    hasse.lsp     The program.
    SPLIT.DSN     Example input file for a split-plot design.
    FIXED2.DSN    Example input file for a 2-factor fixed effects design.

To get started, put these files together in a directory or folder.
Start LISP-STAT from this directory and load the program:

(load "hasse")

Then enter an expression such as

(def ba (balanced-anova-model))

This will create a balanced-anova object and prompt you to select an 
input file.  At first you will have the two choices mentioned above.  
Additional input files may be created with any text editor.  Once the 
file is read, a menu is installed that gives access to the balanced anova 
object, ba.  Messages may also be sent from the LISP-STAT prompt.  
See hasse.tex for details.

This software my be freely used for non-commercial purposes and my be
freely distributed.

Questions and comments may be sent to  piversen@iastate.edu

Philip Iversen, 4/9/92.

