This archive contains two folders (Mac version) or subdirectories (Unix
version) and this README file. Each folder contains the XLISP-STAT programs
required to demonstrate a technique for interactive dynamic exploration of
survival (time-to-failure) data. The programs were written by Meg Gelder
based on specs and prototypes provided by E. Neely Atkinson. The two
folders provided are km-scat and cut. The programs may be run as follows.

      1. km-scat. Load program "demo-km-scat." The program will generate
survival data and covariates and then display a scatterplot matrix of the
covariates linked to a plot of the Kaplan-Meier estimate of the survival 
function for the cases selected in the scatterplots. Using brushing mode
permits an exploration of the effects of the covariates on survival, as well
as an examination of the relations between the covariates.

      2. cut. Load program "demo-cut." The purpose of this program is to
aid the researcher in determining whether a continuous covariate can 
reasonably be recoded into a dichotomous one and to aid in selecting
an appropriate cut point for making such a division. The demonstration
program will generate survival data and a continuous covariate. It will
provided a slider which determines the cutoff point for the covariate and
display the survival curves for those cases with values of the covariate
above and below the cutoff value. Optionally, you can get a display of
a density estimate of the covariate with a mocing vertical line marking
the location of the cutoff.

These programs are provided to encourage people to experiment with the
graphical capabilities provided by LISP-STAT. If you make any extensions
or improvements, please let me know about them - better yet, post them to the
networks. I find these very useful techniques; I'm sure that people smarter
than me will be able to come up with really spectacular stuff.

             E. Neely Atkinson
             Department of Biomathematics
             M. D. Anderson Cancer
             Houston, Tx.
             (713) 792-2619
             neely@biomath.mda.uth.tmc.edu
