


		     Messy Genetic Algorithm (Lisp) Files



This directory contains the files for the messy GA (mGA) Lisp code documented in the
technical report "mGA 1.0:  A Common Lisp Implementation of a Messy Genetic Algorithm"
(TCGA Report No. 90004, by David E. Goldberg and T. Kerzic, 1990.  Please request this
report from The Clearinghouse for Genetic Algorithms (TCGA), University of Alabama at
Tuscaloosa (try contacting Robert E. Smith at rob@comec4.mh.ua.edu).   

Below is the original README file for version 1.0 of the code.  

Kalyanmoy Deb and David E. Goldberg modified the original code in 1991 to run under 
Kyoto Common List (KCL) and to correct errors in version 1.0.  This directory contains 
the modified code.  Please see the postscript file "errata.ps", in this directory, for a 
brief (two page) explanation of Deb and Goldberg's changes.

If you have any problems retrieving files from this server, please contact either Jason
R. Wilcox (jrwilcox@GAL3.GE.UIUC.EDU) or Jeffrey Horn (jeffhorn@uiuc.edu).  If you have
any questions about the code, you can try reaching Kalyanmoy Deb at (deb@iitk.ernet.in).

-Jeffrey Horn (10/5/1994)



The files for the program are 
AUX.LISP    - auxiliary functions
DECODE.LISP - functions for extracting the chromosome 
MGA.LISP    - the main MGA pprogram as well as phasing functions
OBJFUNC.LISP- objective function and associated subroutines
OPS.LISP    - contains MGA genetic operators
SETUP.LISP  - contains the functions for reading in the setup file and setting system parameters
              as well as sizing the population and setting phase change points
STATS.LISP  - generational statistics routines 

The files have associated compiled filed (designation .XLD) for using the system-make feature. If 
you are running on a TI-Explorer then they will be useful otherwise you will probably have to 
recompile the program. It does have one or two explorer specific command that will have to be
changed.  

Other files included
EXAMPLEX.ASC - example input files
DATA.DAT     - data output file
STATOUT.DAT  - keeps track of generation statistics output (just like what you see on the screen)


06/26/91   The code has been modified to run in KCL (Kyoto Common Lisp)   
	   The changes are marked 'deb' at the end of the line.
	   Contributions: Kalyanmoy Deb, David E. Goldberg, and Andrew Horner 
			  University of Illinios at Urbana-Champaign
	   To run in KCL, type the following:
		     > (load "./loadfiles.o")
		     > (load-files)
		     > (mGA)
           The name of the input file name has to be typed in quotes.
	   For example, type "./example2.asc"


