Newsgroups: lists.statlisp,sci.math.stat,comp.lang.lisp.x,comp.ai
Subject: Announcing ElToY
Distribution: world
--text follows this line--

I have just released a new Bayesian Elicitation tool called ElToY.  It
demonstrates several elementary statistical concepts, and may
eventually form the basis of a more sophisticated elicitation tool.

I have included the rather unusual cross posting to comp.ai, because I
view this a knowledge caputuring tool.  If an "expert" is asked to
encode her knowledge in the form of a probability distribution, then
she must also understand the implications of her choice of
distribution.  ElToY provides an interactive environment for
exploring the implications of such judgements.

ElToY is written in XLISP-STAT; instructions for obtaining it are
below.  It is released into the public domain under the GNU library
copyleft (I hope it may be useful as part of some other more complex
software).  I am willing to offer limited support over email (my
addresses are below).



Short Description:

ElToY is an XLISP-STAT program which does one parameter elicitation
for univariate conjugate priors through dynamic graphics.  It contains
a tool for interactively displaying a univariate distribuiton and a
central limit theorem demonstration.  [Russell Almond: almond@statsci.com]

Long Description:

ElToY is a collection of three program written in XLISP-STAT.

Dist-toy displays a univarate distribution dynamically linked to its
parameters.  

CLT-toy provides an illustration of the central limit theorem for
univariate distributions.

ElToY provides a mechanism for displaying the prior and posterior
distributions for a conjugate family dynamically linked so that
changes to the prior affect the posterior and visa versa.

ElToY is coded relatively cleanly in XLISP-STAT and serves as an
illustration of object oriented programming style in statistics.


OBTAINING A COPY:

	1) Via FTP:  ElToY is available via anonymous ftp from
stat.washington.edu (128.95.17.34).  To get a copy, log in with user
name anonymous (password <your-name>@<your-host>) and copy the file
ElToY.tar.Z in binary mode.  This can then be uncompressed and untared
on your computer.  Then follow the directions in the file
INSTALLATION.

	2) Via Email:  ElToY is available via automatic email from
statlib@stat.cmu.edu.  To obtain a copy, send mail to
statlib@stat.cmu.edu with the single line "send index" (no subject
line).  This will give you instructions on how to use the automatic
mail server.


DISTRIBUTION CONTENTS:

ElToY is rather large and is broken into several pieces.

Documentation:

doc        --- Plain TeX documentation.  Is useful without the
		    rest of ElToY
COPYRIGHT  --- GNU COPYLEFT, must be copied if other files are
		    copied. 
README, INSTALLATION, OBJECTS --- misc documentation.

General Stuff (may be useful without the rest of ElToY):

utils	--- Various utilities which may be useful including
		extensions to LISP-STAT, common lisp functions not
	 	provided in XLISP and a cleaned-up slider.

fam     --- Protocol for probability distribution objects and
		Graphical User Interfaces. 

params	--- Parameter object protocols and Graphical User
	        Interfaces. 

Dist-Lib--- Library of univariate distribution objects

Required for both Dist-Toy and ElToY:

toys	--- Top level graphical tools and menus.

clt	--- Central Limit Theorem Stuff

load	--- Loading scripts

Required only for ElToY:

conj	--- Conjugate distribution and Data-Link protocols and
		objects. 

Conj-Lib--- Library of Conjuage Distributions.

This software is proteted by a GNU Library Copyleft which allows:
	1) Unlimited redistribution at cost and
	2) Inclusion as part of a larger system which is sold.
The file COPYING.shar for the exact terms and conditions.

I am willing to provide limited support via email, and am happy to
hear your suggestions for improvements or bug fixes.  I can be reached
at either of the addresses below.


			Russell Almond			   
Statistical Sciences, Inc.		U. Washington
1700 Westlake Ave., N Suite 500		Statistics, GN-22
Seattle, WA  98109			Seattle, WA  98195
(206) 283-8802				
almond@statsci.com			almond@stat.washington.edu

	"This is lightly tricky; one wrong calculation and the whole
analysis results in different answers."  ---From a Stat 390 lab
report.

