Remarks:
********

This little contribution contains two Classical routines:

  1) The Zeroin univariate root finder of Forsythe, et. al. 

  2) Brent's Univariate minimum finder.

See the programs for references.

I use at least zeroin on a very frequent basis and I hope Tierney will
make it available in the new beta, since it comes xlisp-ready.

Note. I have only used this with xlispstat-3-37.

I also wanted to take this opportunity to show how to use dynamic
loading with shared libraries.  Actually, I am not saying anything
new since the documentation contained in the distribution says how
to do this.  However, sufficient mail has reached my mailbox so
as to elicit this demo.

Note that I have only tested this program on my SGI and a Sun running
4.1.x.  

First, you must find out EXACTLY the flags you used to build the
new xlispstat distribution.  The easiest way to do this is to copy the
Makefile that you used to build xlispstat to the current directory and
make the following changes to it.

Search for the variable UCFLAGS and add
-I<your-directory-for-xlispstat-source> to it.

For example, if it was

    CFLAGS = -O -Olimit 2000 -mips2

change it to something like

    CFLAGS = -I/usr/local/src/xlispstat-3-37 -O -Olimit 2000 -mips2

Yeah, you need the source for the header files.

Then search for the target all: and replace the whole entry with

all:    zeroin.o fminbr.o
        ld -o libzero.so -shared zeroin.o fminbr.o

On SunOS 4.1.1, you should drop the -shared option for ld.  Other
systems may also differ, see your local ld man page.

(Actually, when I distribute something for the new xlispstat that 
uses Dynamic loading using call-lfun, I shall use the same 
configure script that comes with the distribution and this will 
all be automatic.)

Then type make. 

Finally, to use these routines, you should be able to just say

xlispstat zerotest

and 

xlispstat mintest

The results you get should match those shown in zeroin.dat and min.dat
respectively. 

Enjoy!

B. Narasimhan                              naras@euler.bd.psu.edu



